---
title: Althaia's FAQ Copypastas
layout: page
permalink: /copypastas/
nav_order: 2
---
Coming soon but usable 
{: .label .label-green }

Daily reminder: Sit up, stretch for a second. Are you hydrated? :) Be kind to yourself.


# Index
<details open markdown="block">
  <summary>
    Table of contents
  </summary>
  {: .text-delta }
1. TOC
{:toc}
</details>

TBH literally the only thing I'll ask of people is to say hello to each other when they log in :) No requirements to carry on a conversation, no requirement to say anything beyond what they are comfortable with/what they are in the mood to say, but it means so much to me to see people at least say hi to each other. Sometimes, that's the only hello or good morning some people get in their day, y'know?


# Shopping


#### #marketboard

You should read the full description of items when you hover over them in the Market board. If you see "shop selling price," there is a regular vendor NPC in the world you can buy it from, assuming you have that area unlocked. People tend to buy from NPCs and resell on the marketboard at a higher price as the "lazy tax". If it says (restricted) it's likely a quest NPC/beast tribe NPC you need to unlock. Also: HQ items have better stats than normal quality and have higher materia meld stat caps!


#### #poetics 

Here’s the "typical" order to spend your poetics: 1. Class gear, having one set of each "archetype" of gear tends to be enough. Ex., all healers share the "healing" sets, 2. Buy items for future relics you want ("End of expansion" weapons. Older relics are just for glam, but the ShB relics are good for stats), 3. Buy unidentifiable ore and trade it for grade 3 thanalan topsoil in Idyllshire (to Bertana) and make nice gil. Never cap on poetics otherwise they’re wasted.

#### #Retainers
Retainers do a lot more for you than just hold stuff. They are basically your extra storage, your way to sell on the market board and a great source of rare materials/items through their Ventures. 

#### #GCSeals

GC Seal priority: 1. VENTURES - You can buy retainer ventures here to use with your retainers. They bring you back TONS of goodies and you can make BANK. 2. Promotions - these cost seals, promote yourself as much as you can. This expands your seal carrying capacity and has tons of other perks as well! 3. Bardings/Minions/Etc - There's collectables in here you can get w/seals! 4. Gil making items - There's items that sell on the market board for ok amounts of money. Typically prisms or coke.


#### #weeklyrewards 

1st you'll craft your exarchic gear, 2nd you will upgrade exarchic gear to "augmented exarchic" using allagan tomestones of allegory in Eulmore. Since Allagan tomestones of Revelation have a weekly cap of 900, you'll then spend a few weeks getting them and getting any Cryptlurker gear that your BIS guide says to get from the balance... At this point you are more than ready to attempt savage raid content which will help you get the real "end game" edenmorn pieces.


#### #scrips #craftinggathering #turnins #weeklyturnins

Scrips are a currency for crafting and gathering. There are yellow (lv 50,60,70) and white (lv80) scrips and they are used to purchase more crafting materials, fishing lures, equipment for DoL/DoH and other stuff. You get them by gathering/crafting Collectables, or doing weekly turn-ins to special NPCs. You get cool rewards for doing turn-ins & getting "affection" increased w/ certain NPCs. Gathering collectables are specific items in specific nodes that have "collectability," not HQ/NQ. 


####  #retainerclass 

Retainers can be either combat classes or gatherers. It doesn't matter what combat class you pick, cus they all get the same "ventures" to go on, but each gatherer can only gather items you've already gathered. They level according to how many ventures you send them on, but they will only level as high as your own class is. So make sure to pick a high level class or one you know you're gonna max soon. You give them "jobs" to do by using ventures purchased most efficiently with grand company seals


#### #BuyHouse #Housing #cost

 Depending on location grade, and size: Small: 2.75-4m, Medium: 16m-20m, Large: 40m-50m


#### #mb 

For weapons: Select your main class, go to lv 80, then right click the ones with the blue background. Click “Try on” then “Unsheathe” them in the preview and you'll see their shiny effects.

For glams: Select lv1, all classes, then on the top right sort by demand and you can see what's typically more expensive/sought after.


#### #tryon #glam #multiplepieces

If you right click > try on > at the bottom there are two blue buttons. The left shows what you currently have equipped and the right lets you try on multiple pieces at once.

#rolesExplanation


# Hunts 

There are A ranks in every expansion. ARR has 1 per map, HW and beyond have 2 per map. ARR gives Allied seals, HW & SB give Centurio seals, SHB gives nuts. These are currencies used to trade for a multitude of items like dyeable class gear, minions, mounts, etc. Nuts are currently used to enhance end game gear as well.


#### #Ranks

What are ranks:

There are different "ranks" of monsters. You can tell these guys apart because they're an unusually high lv mob in contrast to the rest of the map, and they have a special icon next to their name. B ranks spawn every 5 minutes, A ranks spawn every 6 hours, and S ranks are super rare and require a trigger to spawn them every few days. A hunt train is a piece of content where players get together to kill all the A ranks in a particular expansion so everyone gets credit.


#### #SRankSpawn

An S rank is around when you see a gray message in your chat box, saying "You sense the presence of a powerful mark." Do not attack it on your own. Groups will commonly set a “pull time” based off of the in-game time, “Eorzea time” (ex.: “pt 9:12”) - that way plenty of people can all come together and get points for the skill :)


#### #trainEnmity

To my sprouts: Typically you see tons of healers/tanks because the more you heal and the more enmity you generate the more credit we get towards the kill, which helps us max out the rewards we get from each kill.


# Combat


#### #GCDs #oGCDs

The game's skills are divided into two categories: Global Cool Downs (GCDs) and Off Global Cooldown (OGCDs) skills. GCDs happen every 2.5 seconds and OGCDs can be cast any time around that. The best way to improve your performance in game is to "ABC" - Always Be Casting. That means NEVER miss a GCD "window" (aka. you should always click a GCD when it's up, every 2.5 secs), and "Weave" in your OGCDs in between. This maximizes DPS and helps you get better at your class :) 


#### #companion #chocobo 

Your Chocobo Companion is basically your buddy. It can fight with you, it can store items for you (ctrl + shift + i to access the chocobo saddle bag), and it follows you if you use a Gysahl Green item. It can only show up in non-town areas/maps (aka. where mobs spawn) and it can level up with you. You should put points into maxing out its healer stance first, then wherever you want. You can ALSO ride it as a mount, by choosing "Company chocobo". You can also change its color/outfit!

You can summon your chocobo anywhere you can fight overworld mobs, including fates. The DPS isn't great, it can't tank for you, but it sure as shit heal! 1 gysahl green = 30 minutes of IRL time it'll be summoned. You also cannot summon it if you have it stabled at your house/the fc house. You need to stable it to change its color. Riding your summoned choco using the company choco command also halts the timer for companion, good way to save on greens.


#### #LB 

Limit break is shared among the party. Typically it's reserved for DPS (In this order: melee, ranged magic, ranged physical) to use to finish off the boss, and there's 3 different levels of it. If you hover over the icon it explains to you what each level does. Very rarely is it ever used by tanks, and in late game content/raids where you can get 3 LBs. If most of the party is dead, healers will use it. You can find it by going to “Actions and Traits,” then “General.” Put it on your hotbar!


#### #static

Static(s) is a term used to describe a group of people who run content together. Typically it is in an organized fashion with specific dates/times/nights of the week that you meet and get together for a common goal (typically progressing through difficult content, learning fights, etc.) There’s a group-organization channel in Discord that you can check for more info


#### #raids 

Every expansion past ARR has 12 “normal” raids which holds a full party (8 people), 3 "Alliance" which holds 3 full parties (totaling 24 people), and several full party "Trials" (story-related bosses). Most of these are unlocked through MSQ, or through side quests (blue quests with “+”s on them). There's roulettes tied to these different categories. Also, raids can be Normal, Savage or Ultimate, trials can be Normal, Hard, Extreme, or Unreal.


#### #crystaltower

Crystal Tower is an example of an Alliance Raid. It's required before you can do 5.0, and generally you should do all your post-patch side quests to unlock these things as they unlock daily roulettes, but take your time :)


#### #extrials #extreme 

You should never queue for synced extreme trials (ex trials) through duty finder. They require dedication to mechanics, so running them with people who are half-assing and don’t want to be there can be impossible. Finding a group via party finder is a lot more reliable. If you want to run any lv 50 ex trials, you can reliably solo them as a lv 80 (or ask the fc to help). Lv 60 trials require maybe 2-3 people, lv 70/80 require a full party and require tons of practice and watching videos.

You'll only ever queue with two types of people: mentors angry that they got stuck in an EX synced trial, and sprouts who didn't know of the pain to come and may not know mechanics or how to even play their classes.


####  #unsync

You can unsync content by clicking on the duty finder's settings gear in the top left corner. You can then select "Undersized party" and that will let us complete content as our max level and will not sync down our levels to meet the duty's level.


#### #frontlines #pvp

Frontlines is objective-based PVP content with slightly different mechs on each map. Some people try to coordinate over /alliance chat, which shows as orange. There's 3 factions, and you get randomly thrown in one. Your goals are: 1. Capture the flags or kill objectives (oovoos/etc) on the maps. 2. Try not to die as this will give the other team points. 3. Kill other people- pay attention to which team is ahead. 4. The longer you stay alive, the more damage you do (“heat of battle”).


#### #castrum #prae

Castrum Meridianum and Praetorium are notoriously long. They have unskippable cutscenes, players rush through them b/c they're a part of a daily roulette, and an awful experience for sprouts. Let your party know if you’re new so you don’t get left behind and grab snacks for the cutscenes :) Don't worry too much, the whole thing is a meme... they like to pull all the mobs to the end to get the most out of their aoes :P


#### #leveling #howtolevel

Check out https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Wkj8YvVE3l8 for a decent leveling guide. TL;DR: MSQ is always best for leveling, but you'll out level it so we suggest you grab a second class to level in tandem. Every level: All Daily roulettes except guildhests. LV 1-20: Hunt log, Lv 21-60: Squadron missions (In your grand company) or PoTD, 61-70: HoH, 71-80: Bozja or Pixie beast tribe. Every week, Wondrous Tails gets you half a level of exp. Best way to complete lv79.


#### #squadron #recruits

Go to your challenge log > there's different categories. Any time you complete one of those challenges you have a chance to trigger a recruit to show up at your barracks once per week. (This is on the weekly reset every Tuesday morning at 4am). Each category can recruit different recruits, there's 5 of each gender for a total of 10 per race.  You can only trigger one recruit per category per week.

Squadron recruits are recruited by completing tasks in your challenge logs. There are a total of 10 recruits of each race, and 5 of each gender per race. They all have different "reasons'' for joining you, which are the same categories as you have in your challenge log. When you complete a challenge log item you have a CHANCE of getting a recruit. You only get ONE recruit per category per week (resets every Tuesday w/ every other timer). You can buy manuals from your GC to increase chances.

Squadron is a team of 8 NPCs of your choice. They can serve as party mates in place of other players for select dungeons in squadron Command Missions, often as an alternative for leveling a DPS job. New squadron recruits may become available upon completing challenge log entries, up to one recruit per category per week. 


# Gearing up


#### #ornate 

Ornate armor can have 5x lv 8 materia put in it and it's BIS (best in slot) for week 1 of an expansion. Great beginning of the patch if you're racing for stuff like world first clears. You can grab some through the Wondrous Tails rewards.


#### #endgamegear

https://docs.google.com/document/d/1WUSU8iCfL4GHpHX89okK-NiFNOSHSJ6W8VOsFEZmT4k/edit#heading=h.mha1qn6yt717

The current end game gear consists of ilvl 530 gear. The Edenmorn pieces can only be obtained through savage raiding (the hardest raiding tier right now for 8-man raids), or you can get the Augmented Cryptlurker gear. The Augmented Cryptlurker requires you to buy Cryptlurker gear with Tomes of Revelation and then augment them using specific items. Left side equipment requires Crypt Twine, right side requires Crypt Dusting.

Something important to note is that the "current tier" of end game raids will most likely have weekly loot restrictions.This means that no matter how many times you run that, you will only ever get rewards ONCE. You can identify them by going to the "Information" part of the Duty Finder after selecting the raid you want to look at and see if it says "Awards Obtainable: Weekly". In the Alliance raids, you will get a coin the first time you run it and you can only obtain ONE equipment drop. 

You can pick what equipment item to roll for from the alliance raids. So if you run the first raid of the week, and you don't get an item drop you want or if you didn’t win a roll, you will see under your duty finder "2/3 rewards obtained" at the bottom of the info page. You can run as many times as you need to in order to get the equipment you want, but you will only ever get ONE reward of each category it's giving. However You can roll for the minions/scrolls/hairstyles as much as you want.

As far as the Eden raids are concerned, you will only get rewards the FIRST TIME you run them each week.  Per week, you get one book from each raid (can be traded for gear). If all players have NOT cleared that week, two chests appear. 1-5 NOT cleared, 1 chest. If you queue in to a later raid in the series without completing/getting rewards for one before that then you ARE FORFEITING YOUR WEEKLY REWARDS regardless if you clear or not. (Aka. DO NOT Queue in to E10S before you get rewards for E9S)

You get Crypt Twine and Dusting from Sack of Nuts exchange, by trading in a specific weekly book you get from the savage raids, or from turning in one of each of the coins you get from the 3 alliance raids in Shadowbringers. 


#### #materia

Right off the bat, I always advise to not worry about materia until level 80. The stats provided at lower levels are not worth the cost/time consumption of using materia on gear you're gonna be switching in and out of rapidly.

 

As you gain exp your armor it will gain "spiritbond"(and deteriorate if you die). Keep an eye on both to make sure you extract the materia generated by the spiritbond when it's at 100% or find a vendor to mend your gear. If your gear condition is 0% you will not gain any stats/ilevel from it, and it's like you’re not wearing it. EXTRACTING materia from an equipment item generates a NEW materia. RETRIEVING materia is removing materia that's already on your gear.


#### #relicweapons

Every expansion pack has something called a "Relic weapon". While the expansion is "current content", they will typically be end game weapons with the best stats. They are super grindy to get, have several "steps" towards completion, and you should definitely look up a guide to do them. A Realm Reborn = Zodiac weapons, Heavensward = Anima weapons, Stormblood = Eureka, Shadowbringers = Rebellion/Save the Queen. 


# Miscellaneous


#### #referral

You can generate a referral code and refer a friend. You can do this after they buy the game but BEFORE they subscribe. VERY IMPORTANT that they don't subscribe until they redeem your referral code. Once they redeem it, you both get chocobo feathers (gold and silver, used for different things), and there's feather exclusive mounts as well as other stuff that helps people get started/assists you in getting neat shit. https://na.finalfantasyxiv.com/lodestone/special/friend_recruit/

Rewards that you get at the end of your 30 day free subscription: a friendship circlet (Increases EXP earned by 20% when level 25 and below), 99x aetheryte tickets (free teleports), a fist bump emote, and 10 silver chocobo feathers. There are more rewards to claim the longer you are subscribed.


#### #chocobofeathers 

BTW guys reminder: If you know anyone who has bought the game but has NOT signed up for the subscription, you can generate a referral code and you can earn your chocobo feathers :D And they also get goodies! 


####  #turnoff #battleeffects #spelleffects

 Character config > control settings > characters > scroll down "battle effects settings" > show limited/show none. Beware, show limited WILL affect your fishing.


#### #saveHUD

There's two ways to copy your hud layout: 1. Go to the FFXIV folder, copy your character data folder & paste it on your new computer. 2. Before logging in, click on the gear next to the character and you can upload your current config to the server... then download it where you want. VERY IMPORTANT: Make sure to do it FIRST on the computer with the settings you wanna back up (for both steps).


#### #chatlog 

In order to edit your chat settings, you click on the settings gear below the chat box. Go down to log filters on the first tab and you can change these to your liking. You can rename the last two tabs by right clicking on them under the chat window, but not the first two. If you want to change the 3rd tab to just FC, you would click on the tab name under the log filters menu, click on the "Uncheck all" button, then go to the chat tab and select free company and then hit apply.

 

 You can also click + drag the chat names around to make multiple windows :) My setup is: General (Everything minus a few CWLS/LS and NN), Battle (Only my CWLS/LS and NN), Hunts (Only my Hunting LS/CWLS), System (in a different window, but default filter settings)


#### #flying #ridingmap #speed

 As players progress, the speed of mounts on the ground will increase in two stages. The first is via quest lines, whereas the second is via purchasable enhancements. All mounts have the same base movement speed increase. While flying, mounts have 200% speed of a regular running mount.

 2nd star: ARR: Buy a riding map from Grand Company Hunt Billmaster in your GC. HW: Buy Riding map from Ardolain in ishgard. SB: Buy riding map for centurio seals in Kugane/Rhalgr's Reach. ShB the star is obtained by purchasing it from each map's bicolor gemstones vendor.


####  #AetherCurrents

 Unlock flying in ARR by finishing the 2.0 MSQ. HW currents are unlocked after completing MSQ "Divine Intervention". HW/SB Have 15 currents per map. ShB has 10 currents per map with 5 tied to the MSQ. www.heavenswhere.com is a great site if you need help finding them.

#### #idyllshire #wondroustails

When players hit Idyllshire in Heavensward, you're able to grab a "Wondrous Tails" book. You collect stamps by running the content it requires in order to get cool weekly rewards. If you ever are about to run a new piece of content, just give us a shout here on FC chat. If people with books run content with players who haven't completed it before, we get points for the books.

The best part about wondrous tails is that even if you get no lines you still get 50% of a level worth of EXP from it. It's always worth getting it every week on Tuesdays. You technically have 2 weeks to complete each book, but you can get one new book a week so it's recommended you do them weekly.

####  #weeklyrewards

# FC

#### #discord 

Discord link can be found under the "Company board" by navigating to the Free Company menu ( ; on PC), then going to "Topics" on the left :) Also you can navigate to discord.onee-chan.info on your browser and get the invite that way!

#### #FCactions

So every FC can have two active "actions" (You can go to the FC menu then go to the actions tab and you'll see the ones we have active). You can purchase lv 1 and lv2 actions from the grand company if you are high enough rank in an FC and you can activate them if you have the right rank. Each lasts 24 hours. In order to get lv 3 buffs, you have to craft them at the fc shop and then charge them for 3 days in the aetherial wheel stand. You can only charge 1 buff at a time. 

#### #teleport #fchouse

You can use your teleport menu to teleport to the FC house. Go to the teleport icon and at the top you'll see 'Residential Areas.'  Click on "The Goblet - Estate Hall (Free Company)" and you'll find us :) Tons of us hang out here, and we have a really convenient market board and retainer bell. We also own a few houses around the FC house, if you wanna hang out there as well ^.^ 


# FC messages

#### #welcometoFC

If you need anything, please let me know! We have a discord with tons of resources (discord.onee-chan.info), an FC house you can come and visit/hang out at with a convenient marketboard/retainer bell, we also have a ton of dyes/glamour prisms/etc you can grab in the first two FC chest slots. Our site is over at onee-chan.info and our tips, guides and other resources are over at docs.onee-chan.info. 

####  #FCChatRules #NSFW

We have some somewhat nebulous rules, but here's what I expect in FC chat: 1. We assume everyone is at least 18. If you are below 17, do NOT state your age. I haven't kicked anyone because of their age yet, but this is NOT a family friendly place. 2. RESPECT EACH OTHER. 3. No graphic detailing of sexual acts/other shit to anyone, especially if they are not consenting. 4. We can totally be pervy, suggestive, and playful, but if you ever wanna stop, let the chat know and it must be respected.