---
title: Bozja FAQ (WIP)
nav_order: 3
permalink: /Bozja/
---
Coming soon but barely usable
{: .label .label-red }

Clusters are a form of currency used in bozja southern front. They drop from specific mombs anda re used to buy stuff like riding maps, minions and other stuff.

#bozja 
1.) There's 3 zones, the 1st auto unlocks, the 2nd unlocks at rank 5 and the third unlocks at rank 8. 2.) You earn "mettle" and at specific levels of mettle you earn more "Rank". 3.) You earn mettle/ranks by killing mobs in the zones and by doing "skirmishes", which are fates. 4.) You can change classes inside of bozja, and any class above lv 71 can be used. You earn a SHIT TON of exp from skirmishes and you should do them to rank up + level up classes. Best EXP for lv 71-80.
5.) At rank 10 you unlock "Castrum Lacus Litore" - a raid that happens every hour inside of bozja. Required for quest progression, and the quests are also what unlocks the zones, so def do them. 6.) You can struggle and have all relic quests open at all times so you can farm memories at any time lol... it's hard but it's doable. And recommended. 7.) When you get inside bozja, do it with a group always. Just /shout that you're looking for a party. 
8.) The monsters have ranks denoted by the numbers next to them       - Do not attack anything higher than a   by yourself lol. 9.) Doing skirmishes lowers timer for castrum. 

#whatisbozja
Bozja is "post patch" content. In ARR there was Palace of the Dead, in HW it was the firmament (and idk what else?), in SB it was Eureka and Heaven on High and in ShB It's Bozja. It's meant to pad out time between expacs and are usually great ways to level your classes/get goodies/grind for shiny stuff.
Currently you need to do bozja to get your current SHB relic and current best weapon in the game. You need to do the Crystal Tower ARR Alliance raids and the Stormblood Alliance raids to be able to start the quests to unlock it. It involves an instanced map where you go around doing fates called Skirmishes, and there's a special raid dungeon in there. That's the "Bozjan Southern Front" and "Castrum Lacus Litore". 
Bozja is the new eureka. Basically Eureka after square listened to players and made it less horrible. There's Gangos, sort of the hub for Bozjan resistance story/quests. Then there's the Bozjan Southern Front (the instance w/the fates), and then there's Zadnor, the most recent instanced area for the Bozjan story. Basic progression is: Ranks 1 - 12 - bozjan southern front skirmishes/content/quests + battle of castrum lacus litore at rank 10, then the "Delubrum Reginae" (DR) raid.
You access DR and Bozja from the same NPC, but you can only do Castrum Lacus Litore from INSIDE of Bozja (it's triggered from how active the instance is, it can have like 120 players in there). So you level up and do bozjan southern front till like rank 12 when u unlock DR then u complete that and get to go in to Zadnor. Basically another bozjan southern front where u unlock maps as u progress through ranks (mettle is the exp u get from doing that content and gets u ranks).
So then you hit rank 25 and you can do the new raid, Daladria. And then that's technically the end of the story :) After that it's just endless grind to get your shiny weapons. Great place to level classes from lv 71-80 tho since everything gets scaled up to lv 80. Lets u practice ur lv 80 rotations for example.

